hey this is pressed tall Walker and
you're watching mind your decisions
here's a really fun puzzle the challenge
is to make each number from 0 to 10
using three threes in other words make
each equation true with equality using
mathematical operations there are many
ways to do this and here's a crazy hard
bonus question find two answers 4 3 3 3
equals 10 using only the following
symbols plus exclamation point in
parentheses
I think Yael from Hong Kong for
suggesting this problem and I give
credit to Karl hos channel his video in
Chinese made this problem go viral in
Hong Kong the puzzle went viral because
of 3 3 3 equals 10 which is the hardest
one in this list the Crazy Heart bonus
might introduce a new concept to you and
I hope you will enjoy learning it there
are other ways to solve 3 3 3 equals 10
and I'm going to present some of those
as well can you figure it out give this
problem a try and when you're ready keep
watching the video for a solution so
many of these equations have multiple
answers and due to time constraints I'm
only going to present some of the
answers if you find another method let
everyone know in the comments I won't be
able to respond to emails as I'm getting
too many nowadays so let's get started 3
plus 3 plus 3 is equal to 9 we could
also do 3 to the power of 3 divided by 3
is equal to 9 next we can do 3 plus 3
minus 3 to get to 3 or we could also do
3 times 3 over 3
continuing three plus three is equal to
six we divide that by three and we get
to another way is three minus three over
three that also gets to two to get to
six we could do three times three minus
three or we could do a three factorial
minus three plus three one creative way
that you can get to six is you'll do
three left shifted by 3 over 3 this
equals 3 times 2 to the power 1 which is
equal to 6 this less than less than is
read as the arithmetic left shift
operator and you're shifting by one
binary bit this is something computer
scientist will be familiar with and I
got the idea from the website
cut-the-knot continuing on we can get 4
by 3 plus 3 over 3 we could also do 3
factorial minus 3 factorial over 3 to
get to 1 one way we could do this is 3
factorial minus 3 and then we divide
that by 3 we could also do 3 to the
power of 3 minus 3 or we could do the
square root of 3 times the square root
of 3 and then we divide that by 3 that
also gets to 1 to get to 0 we'll do 3
factorial minus 3 minus 3 to get to 5
we'll do 3 factorial minus 3 over 3 we
could also do 3 factorial over 3 plus 3
to get to 5 to get to 7 one way is 3
factorial plus 3 over 3 we could also do
3 factorial plus the quantity 3 minus 3
factorial and because 0 factorial is
equal to 1 this equals 7 we could also
do 3 divided by point 3 subtract 3 and
that also gets to 7
to get to 8 we have 3 factorial plus 3
factorial over 3 so now that brings us
to the final equation which is perhaps
the most interesting challenge one way
to solve this problem is you take the
arctangent of the square root of 3 and
then you divide by the quantity 3 plus 3
to get to 10 I saw this in a video
comment on karl hos channel the logic is
that the arctangent of the square root
of 3 is equal to 60 degrees now
technically you then divide by 6 to get
to 10 degrees but that'll be good enough
for this puzzle another way that you can
solve this is you take the square root
of 3 plus the square root of 3 you take
that quantity multiply it by 3 that'll
get you to a number that's slightly
larger than 10 so you then take the
floor function or round down to get to
10 I saw this on the website
cut-the-knot three threes now Yael
suggested three possible solutions to
this as well here's one creative way you
take the square root of 3 times 3 which
will be 3 you then divide it by 3
percent 3 divided by 3 percent is a
hundred you then take the square root of
100 to get to 10 another solution is you
take the log with the base the square
root of the square root of 3 you take
that up 3 and then you add 3 factorial
now the logarithm will evaluate to be 4
so then when you add 3 factorial you get
to 10 another way is that you take 3
times 3
that'll be 9 and then you add the
following you take the derivative of 3
which is 0 and then 0 factorial is equal
to 1 so we have 9 plus 1 and that equals
10 amazing so now how do we solve this
bonus question two answers to get us to
10 using only the symbols plus
exclamation point and parentheses in
order to solve this I'm going to review
some ways that you can use the
exclamation
point the most common way is n factorial
or n exclamation point
this is the number of permutations of n
that is the number of ways to arrange
the order list going from 1 to n n
factorial is the product of the numbers
from 1 to N and 3 factorial is equal to
1 times 2 times 3 which equals 6 we've
been using that in many of these
equations but there's another way that
you can use the exclamation point
exclamation point n is read is n sub
factorial this is the number of the
arrangements of n these are permutations
where no element appears in its natural
order so let's calculate some of these 1
sub factorial is equal to 0 this is
because the list 1 has no derangement
the only way you can order one is to
have one 2 sub factorial is equal to 1
this is because the list 1 comma 2 has
the derangement 2 comma 1 2 is in the
wrong spot and one is in the wrong spot
but there's no other way that you could
arrange the elements like this now for a
list of 3 elements 3 sub factorial is
actually equal to 2 why is that well how
can we put the list 1 2 3 so that no
element is in its natural order there
are two different ways we could have the
list 2 3 and 1 or we could have 3 1 & 2
notice that in each of these the numbers
1 2 & 3 are all out of order so it'll be
very useful to us that 3 sub factorial
is equal to 2 now just for general
knowledge there are formulas for sub
factorial and sub factorial is equal to
the following formula it's n factorial
times as alternating sum you can also
calculate it as the following and sub
factorial is equal to the floor function
of n factorial divided by e plus 1/2
this will be true for n greater than or
equal to 1 so how does 3 sub factorial
equal 2 to help us solve this problem
well one way we can get to 10 is 3
factorial + 3 sub factorial + 3 sub
factorial we have 6 + 2 + 2 and that
gets to 10 another way to solve this is
3 sub factorial multiplied by the
quantity 3 + 3 sub factorial we have 2 x
3 + 2 so we have 2 x 5 and that also
equals 10 so this is how you solve the
bonus question of getting to 10 using
only the symbols + exclamation point in
parenthesis did you figure out these
problems and what methods did you come
up with please share in the comments
thanks for watching this video these
math videos which can be watched for
free inspire and build confidence for
people around the world and they already
have over a hundred million views let's
share the beauty of mathematics with
your help we can map the world a better
place please subscribe for free to get
the news videos watch and share all of
mind your decisions videos you will meet
a puzzle or math topic fresh at mind
your decisions calm if you so choose you
can check out my books which are listed
in the video description and you can
support me on patreon to earn exclusive
rewards thanks for watching and thanks
for your support